---
title: "lump"
date: 2022-07-03T17:44:42+01:00
tags: ["notes"]
draft: false
---

vgames often critiqued on assumption that the actions they enact on player/ train player to do / enforce to proceed are to be seen as analagous to a real-world action, as in jumping is a kind of benign activity as it would be irl, monetary exchange is capitalism, shooting a gun is shooting a real gun etc. understandable why this is a common methodology though it feels more like something adopted from another history of critique plastered onto games because we still haven't figured out how we should approach them as critical objects. i think this is notable not just in the way it has shaped games writing in the popular sense, but also in how it has and continues to shape how games are made. eg, you can identify strands within indie games/ small games communities which would emphasise a lack of monetary transactions in a game as being anti-capitalist, or the lack of combat as anti-violence, and so on. i think this makes sense of a cursory appraisal but doesnt really stand up beyond that-- a cultural framing trend of videogames as 'origins' of behaviours/ affects, rather than symptoms of a wider culture (ie violence in games as a cause of violence rather than a symptom of a violent society). i think this is where we can locate the imo benign trend of 'wholesome games' which seem to be the result of a whittling down of these elements, a creativity thru reduction/ negation. i think in a lot of ways this is aligned with a similar sensabillity in contemporary art where non-positional stances or neutrallity is used as a way to ensure buisiness as usual. what i mean by this is, you could very easily follow this creative path with a game, thinking you are making a work which stands against ie violence and capitalism through the extraction of them from the game, but in actuallity end up to what amounts to mario with a different aesthetic veneer-- like saying mario would be anticapitalist if we removed the coins etc. perhaps this is particularly pervasive within games due to afformentioned cultural memetic that vgames function as endorsements of what they contain in some way, that their primary mode of meaning is as retraining the psyche moreso than something to engage with knowingly. this is fuzzy territory becuase clearly there are games which do latch onto the worst intersections of capital and the psyche ( any number of tired examples of predatory gambling practices, loot boxes, gacha )-- though again these are less instigators and more amoung a milleu of similarly depraved cultural practices. in other words i guess im saying that despite the sheer ubiquity and destructiveness of these practices, they aren't the root of these problems, and simply not engaging with capitalism within an art context has a strong history of having no effect whatsoever.